---
layout: home
---

<p>Here's a review of some general principles and responsibilities of being a Hare at the CAN'd H3.</p><h3>Before:</h3><p>A good hash trail is a combination of a fun and shiggy trail that culminates in a circle/religion where we aren't busted by the cops for at least half an hour to an hour! Scout your neighborhood or look for areas you'd like to explore. Yes we go over fences - but you should also plan trail so those that can't can get around the obstacle. Yes we go through water - and if we do make sure you tell the On-Sec&nbsp; to include in your trail write up that dry shoes are recommended. Also, you aren't creating a running race course! Find an area where trail can pickup in multiple directions for interesting checks, where FRB's are challenged (through turkey/eagle splits and YBF's), and walkers can catch up to the pack. If this is your first haring, stick to one beer check and keep your true trail not much more than 3 miles. As you gain experience (and travel to other hashes and learn new ways to mess with the pack) you can add a liquor checks, fish-hook checks, which-ee way checks, just to name a few other checks not discussed here.</p><ol><li><strong>Essential info details</strong> (yes, this must be true and accurate):<ol><li><strong>Date and start time</strong> If you want to change the start time first check-in with the HareRaiser. Start times can vary due to time of year or special event.</li><li><strong>Start location, directions</strong> Provide sufficiently detailed information so, if necessary, it can be easily looked up on a cell phone. Include details that make sure everyone shows up in the right place, i.e. north side of parking lot. Include information about vehicle parking.</li><li><strong>Logistical stuff:</strong> Type of trail: A-A, A-A' (said "A to A prime)or A to B. A to A starts and ends at same place. A' is usually just a few blocks away. B is usually half to a full mile or more away. IF you are planning an A to B trail you will need to arrange transportation back to A. This is a hare reponsibility unless haring an special event.</li><li><strong>Lubrication stuff:</strong> How many beer checks or bar checks and the plan for handling the checks. The Beer Meister will provide coolers and Hash Cash will reimburse up to $30. It is up to the hare to get the cooler of beer, water and ice to the beer check. Hare will also need retrieve the cooler and get it back to the Beer Meister. If you have other checks you want to do run it by the HareRaiser.</li><li><strong>Trail stuff:</strong> Inform the HareRaiser of any different trail markings, or (Be very careful) BVCs, dangerous traffic, cliffs, etc. so that a proper chalk talk can be done.</li><li><strong>Dead/Alive:</strong> The HareRaiser and On-Sec should know whether the trail has live hares or is pre-laid</li><li><strong>Length:</strong> Map your trail for mileage and communications purposes. There are plenty of online software or an app for your smart phone to use. Hares should shoot for true trail to be not much more than 4 miles. Added mileage should come in the form of Falses, YBF's, Turkey/Eagle Splits, and Back Checks. Provide a map of your trail to the Hare Raiser. If you don't provide a map of&nbsp; your trail, you need to also mark a Walkers trail as well as turkey/eagle trail.</li></ol></li><li><strong>Key info for Hashers about the trail:</strong> Write up something about your trail and give details to On-Sec so the pack can get excitedabout what you are planning. Things to include:&nbsp;<ul><li><strong>Needed stuff:</strong> an ID, money, swimming, gloves, dry clothes, costumes, etc</li><li><strong>Safety stuff:</strong> whistle, bug spray, sunscreen, flashlight, long running pants, camelback</li><li><strong>Dog-ability:</strong> (for both Turkey and Eagle)</li><li><strong>Theme:</strong> Not required but the Kennel usually has fun!</li></ul></li><li><strong>Timely contact with the OnSec</strong> with trail info: at least 4 days before the hash day.</li></ol><h3>During:</h3><ol><li><strong>No Hasher left behind:</strong><ol><li><strong>Communication:</strong> Ensure you have a cell phone in case there's an injury on trail or if something happens that the trail cannot be completed. Make sure you have the HareRaiser, On-Sex, BM's or GM's phone numbers.</li><li><strong>Head count</strong> (Who said 'head'?): Ensure you have a good idea how many hashers are running your trail. You should know who the DFL's are. Since you mapped your trail the Walkers/DFL's can help sweep the trail and look out for lost Virgins. If you do not map your trail be prepared to sweep your trail.</li><li><strong>Buddy plan:</strong> Ensure the Hare Raiser or RA pairs up any virgins with an experienced Hasher. This helps ensure that every Wanker makes it to the On-In. (trust it - there's nothing worse than being unsure whether there's someone missing on trail when the sun goes down)</li><li><strong>Clean up your mess:</strong> In some places you may be required to sweep up or remove flour markings.</li></ol></li><li><strong>Setting Trail:</strong><ol><li><strong>Philosophy:</strong> The first thing to remember is that a hash trail is a group/team event. That is how our founder, Gispert, intended it! The intent of the Hare should be to keep the pack together. This is achieved by FREQUENTLY injecting various trail-tricks to screw with the front running bastards(FRB) and the short-cutting bastards(SCB) and bring everyone back together as much as possible. Every check, false trail, YBF you create serves to slow down the FRBs, keeps the SCB in line and helps the rest of the pack to catch up. The pack functions as a team to determine where those bastard Hares went next.</li><li><strong>Trail Marking:</strong> Use PLENTY of flour and chalk to mark your trail.There are a few exceptions of when to use each.<ul><li><strong>Flour:</strong> good for off-trail. Flour resists rain much better than chalk. Use with some restraint in downtown areas. We have had problems with our flour markings being confused with anthrax. It is best to use chalk marks where there is a lot of pedestrians or where flour may be swept away by municial workers. In the rain, mix in a some oatmeal to the flour. Will help it from being washed away.</li><li><strong>Chalk:</strong> Not bad in rain. The best "chalk" for rain is drywall stickers broken into manageable pieces</li><li><strong>Toilet Paper:</strong> Can be useful in vegetation but you must plan on removing after trail is completed.</li></ul></li><li><strong>Trail Laying &amp; Markings:</strong> (You will get many down-downs for poor usage!)<ul><li><strong>Trail markings:</strong> <strong>(double-headed arrow or flour drops)</strong> The Hare uses an two-headed arrow or a dollop of flour to indicate a trail.&nbsp; After three flour drops/arrows the trail is true. Should generally be not muchfarther than you can see from the previous. Lay closer together in dense or confusing areas like Shiggy. Do not set a False by not laying any more flour/arrows. Mark it with a False or YBF (see below).&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Check:</strong> <strong>(circle with divided with two lines that make an X)</strong> Use them often. By definition check points are always on the True Trail. When possible, mound flour in the middle so the pack can kick it to mark where the pack thinks true trail goes.</li><li><strong>Direction changes:</strong> Any major change in trail direction, like a clear left/right turn is at at a Check point or designated by a True Trail Arrow. Winding trails should suffice with just hash marks. Only a Hare can lay a True Trail Arrow.</li><li><strong>Hare Arrow: </strong>&nbsp;<strong>(double-headed arrow with three bars on the shaft) </strong>Also called a True Trail Arrow. Only the Hare can leave and is used instead of flour drops</li><li><strong>Pack Arrow:</strong> <strong>(One-sided arrow)</strong> This is NOT a mark that the Hare leaves. It indicates what direction the pack went. If a lone hasher (FRB) leaves the mark ideally they should use their hash name initials to help the pack decide if they want to follow. Be aware that the Hasher who left it may have been on a bad trail.</li><li><strong>Splits: (two arrows that diverge with one pointing to "T" trail and one pointing to "E" trail) </strong>Most common split is Turkey/Eagle with Eagle being the harder/longer trail. If you are splitting Walkers from the main trail use a "W" for walkers.</li><li><strong>False Trails:</strong> <strong>(three bars/lines) </strong>False trails must not last more than 2 hash marks. It is best to indicate a False Trail so the pack doesn't continue and run into another part of the trail. The exceptions to the rule about False Trails are when you lay a YBFor CB.</li><li><strong>YBFs (You've Been Fucked):</strong> The YBF can go as long as you like. It must end in a False Trail marking. The pack then goes back to the check and looks for true trail.</li><li><strong>Beer Checks:</strong> Give the pack a signal that beer is near and should be seeing the beer coolers with the Beer Near mark ("BN"). At the Beer Check use "B" with a check mark (and an arrow if necessary) to point to the coolers. Trails traditionally have 1 beer check - more if the Hares wants to and are willing to come out of pocket for the extra. It is the Hare's choice to meet the pack at the beer check. You will then have a 10-15 minute start from the beer check. We wait for all Wankers to catch up to the beer check. A Beer Check is&nbsp; your first indication that there may be hashers lost on trail.</li><li><strong>Song Check</strong>: This is where the pack or a number indicated stop to sing a hash song of their choosing. The symbol can be a musical note or "S" - if there isn't a number included then it is the whole pack that needs to hold and then sing a song. Useful mark to gain yourself some time.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Check Backs or Back Checks:</strong> <strong>(circle with a number in it)</strong>&nbsp; It is the only time that you can change direction on trail without using a Check or a Hare Arrow.&nbsp; From the circle marking, retrace their steps by counting back the number of trail marks indicated in the Back Check circle. At that marking, treat it like a Check and look for trail.&nbsp; Example of CB with a number: after a Checkpoint, you mark about 20 hash marks, knowing that true trail turns at hash mark #14. After 19th hash mark, lay a circle with a 6 inside. The pack will have to reverse trail and count back 6 hash marks. The Back Check is one of the more frustrating variations on a check for the pack. Remember, this is where you have a Check but the true trail is back on the trail you just came from and then searched for off of a flour/arrow mark.&nbsp; When the mark does not have a number it is called a Singapore Back Check (SBC-an empty circle). The true trail can be anywhere between the BC and either the last Check or the last True Trail mark. An SBC is the quickest way to mess up your trail if not done well = really only use if you are an experienced hare!</li></ul></li></ol></li></ol><h3>After:</h3><ol><li><strong>Lost Sheep:</strong> Remember - No Hasher Left Behind. You're the only ones who really know the trail (unless you prepared a map), so be prepared to police up those of dubious intelligence, with less than half a mind, or who naturally can't follow directions.</li><li><strong>Honoring the Hares:</strong> ("And the Hairs! And the Hairs! And the Hairs of her dickdidoe hung down to her knees")&nbsp;<ol><li>In circle, the pack will "kindly" and "gently" remark about the quality of your trail as only a pack of hashers can. Of course, you'll pay the price for any occasion where a Hasher notes whether any of these sacred marks were misused! Hares then get to drink more free beverages of their choice in the circle for such transgressions! Also if you concocted an extra devious trail (YBFs, CBs etc.) the pack might vote for extra beverages for you.</li><li><strong>Attaboy:</strong> On many occasions, a veteran Hasher will actually COMPLIMENT the Hares on their originality and/or choice of venue. But whether or not you get the kudos you think you deserve or if you felt your trail was unduly reviewed by the pack, <strong>CONGRATULATIONS!</strong> <strong>You're in the hash history books for setting trail.</strong></li></ol></li><li><strong>On-on-on:</strong> Pick a place for the pack to continue celebrating your trail</li></ol>
